Your circulatory system transports nutrients and oxygen
to billions of cells throughout your body.
It is divided into 3 major parts:
your heart, blood, and blood vessels.
Red blood cells carry oxygen from your lungs
to all your body’s cells
and pick up carbon dioxide to be carried
back to the lungs and eliminated when you exhale.
Blood is transported through blood vessels.
Oxygen and nutrients pass from the blood
into cells through the walls
out of tiny vessels called capillaries.
Angiogenesis is the process of
growing new blood vessels
from ones that have already formed.
It is important for both good health and healing.
However, it can also support the growth of cancer cells.
Cells release chemical messengers,
which activate cells in blood vessels
to form new vessels that grow
towards the source of the signals.
Cancer cells grow uncontrollably
and do not die like normal cells.
The oxygen and nutrients supplied
through new blood vessels support this growth.
They also enable cancer cells to move
through the vessels to other parts of the body.